# Mystical notification consumer server
In today's fast-paced digital world, effective communication is vital for seamless collaboration and efficient operations. As organizations embrace diverse infrastructure and services, managing notifications from various sources becomes increasingly complex. Enter the Notification Consumer Server—a powerful tool designed to consume notifications from AWS SQS and deliver them to clients via different communication channels such as email and SMS. In this Sercvice, we explore the significance of a Notification Consumer Server and its role in simplifying notification management across infrastructure and API servers.

#### `The Importance of Streamlined Notifications:`
In modern software development environments, notifications play a crucial role in keeping stakeholders informed about important events, updates, and alerts. Whether it's notifying developers about build failures, informing customers about order status changes, or alerting administrators about system errors, streamlined notifications are essential for maintaining productivity and ensuring timely response to critical events.

#### `Introducing the Notification Consumer Server:`
The Notification Consumer Server serves as a central hub for managing notifications from AWS SQS—a fully managed message queuing service. By consuming messages from SQS queues, the consumer server retrieves notifications generated by different infrastructure components, services, and API servers. It then processes these notifications and delivers them to clients via various communication channels, including email and SMS.

#### `Consuming Notifications from AWS SQS:`
AWS SQS serves as a reliable and scalable message queuing service, allowing different parts of the infrastructure to produce notifications as messages in SQS queues. The Notification Consumer Server subscribes to relevant SQS queues, fetching notifications in real-time as they are produced. By leveraging SQS's distributed messaging architecture, the consumer server ensures reliable and efficient delivery of notifications to clients.

#### `Delivering Notifications via Different Channels:`
Once notifications are consumed from AWS SQS, the Notification Consumer Server delivers them to clients via different communication channels. This includes sending email notifications using SMTP or third-party email services, as well as sending SMS notifications using SMS gateways or communication APIs. By supporting multiple communication channels, the consumer server ensures that notifications reach clients through their preferred channels, enhancing accessibility and user experience.

#### `Benefits of Using a Notification Consumer Server:`

  - `Centralized Notification Management:` Notifications from different sources are consolidated and managed centrally,   
     simplifying notification management and reducing complexity.
  - `Real-time Notification Delivery:` Notifications are delivered to clients in real-time as they are produced, ensuring 
    timely communication and response to critical events.
  - `Multi-channel Communication:` Notifications are delivered to clients via different communication channels, including email 
    and SMS, accommodating diverse communication preferences and requirements.
  - `Scalable and Reliable Infrastructure:` By leveraging AWS SQS for message queuing and other cloud services for 
    communication, the consumer server ensures scalability, reliability, and high availability, even under heavy loads.


### Follow the instruction step by step
Before go to step you should be install node in your system. i used node 20.x version.


#### Step 1: Define the AWS credentials in .env file
```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY=
AWS_SECRET_KEY=
```

#### Step 4: Define the AWS notification queue path in .env file
```
CONSUMER_QUEUE_URL=https://sqs.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/accountId/mystical-notification-queue
```

#### Step 5: Define the REDIS path in .env file
```
REDIS_URL=
```

#### Step 6: Define the smtp configuration in .env file
```
FROM_EMAIL=dev.solution@mystical.com

SMTP_MAIL_DRIVER=smtp
SMTP_MAIL_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
SMTP_MAIL_PORT=587
SMTP_MAIL_USERNAME=
SMTP_MAIL_PASSWORD=
SMTP_MAIL_ENCRYPTION=tls
```

#### Step 7: Move project root and Install dependency
```sh
cd project-root && npm install
```

#### Step 8: Run server
```sh
npm start
```


In conclusion, the Notification Consumer Server plays a pivotal role in simplifying notification management across infrastructure and API servers. By consuming notifications from AWS SQS and delivering them to clients via different communication channels such as email and SMS, the consumer server enhances communication, collaboration, and operational efficiency. As organizations strive to optimize communication channels and streamline notification workflows, investing in a Notification Consumer Server becomes essential for achieving seamless communication and delivering superior user experiences.
